---
path: "/blog/communicating-across-cultures"
date: "2018-03-29"
title: "Communicating across cultures"
---


In the last few years the world of work has seen a dramatic change as the frequency of communication between clients, vendors and/or fellow employees from different countries increased considerably. This, in turn, brought to the surface the vast contrast in communication styles between cultures and the problems generated by it. Coming across as abrupt or non-caring is one of many possible issues that could arise from neglecting this subject.

One study examined nearly 7500 questionnaire responses from managers and executives across 12 countries targeting 39 key personality traits, and compiled them into what they called "The Big Five": emotional balance, extroversion, consentiusness, agreableness and openness to new experiences.

The researchers have also noted that agreeableness and emotional balance account for the biggest disparities. For instance, business leaders in the UK had among the lowest scores on agreeableness, received average scores in emotional balance and got high scores in extroversion. On the other hand, managers and executives in Japan scored high in emotional balance and very low in extroversion. This might lead, for example, to an engineer from the UK facing some awkward silences when traveling to Asia or a Chinese manager in America putting his foot in it by asking the wrong questions.

But these are not the only criteria on the subject. Another author classified said differences into 8 scales: communicating, evaluating, leading, deciding, trusting, disagreeing and scheduling. These scales, for instance 'evaluating', range from one end of the spectrum, direct negative feedback, to the other, indirect negative feedback. The main purpose behind this is to allow both parties to consider where they fall in these scales and help them to adapt accordingly.

In conclusion, while there may be many ways to categorize and analize these discrepancies in behaviour and communication styles, it's worth noting that being aware of them and adapting around them is crucial to succeed in interacting with people from different cultures.
